SOURCE READINGS: full text of the source book pages on the demo
(Transcribed from the JH11-21 source book, Unit 2, by OCR. Small typos may remain. Worksheet questions are left out.)

=== RESPONSES TO EMANCIPATION (background) ===
RESPONSES TO EMANCIPATION
Following the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars, Jews in much of Western
Europe were given new freedoms. They were suddenly released from the ghetto in which they had been living. In France, Germany, Italy and Holland they were given the right to vote and other civil liberties. In many places they could enter universities, work at almost any job they chose, even accept public office. Many Jews were hardly ready for these changes after living in darkness of the ghettos for so long and their new freedoms were like a blinding light. Many were confused even as they were excited.
For many, Judaism suddenly seemed old-fashioned and out of date. Some of these Jews, looking at the world with their new eyes, moved further and further away from their
Judaism. They assimilated, even converted to Christianity. Some Jews tried to change
Judaism to meet the needs of the new life they were living while other Jews maintained that no changes were permitted or necessary in Judaism.
1. CONVERSION TO CHRISTIANITY: conversion was one way in which Jews reacted to the age of emancipation. Traditionally baptism had been the escape from persecution and emancipation should have made it unnecessary. In fact, from the end of the 1gth century conversion became common. It was no longer a dramatic act of heresy, a change of one world to the other. With the decline of the part all religion played in society, conversion might be less of a religious act than a secular one. Heinrich Heine!
(1797-1856) who had himself baptized the year after Karl Marx,? referred to the act contemptuously as an 'entrance ticket to European society' (see p. 118 in the hoveret).
During the 19ü century, in east-central Europe, at least 250 000 Jews bought their
'tickets' and hope to enter European society via conversion.
• For a Jew, everywhere except in the United States, remaining a few was a material sacrifice. The rewards of baptism could be considerable. In England, from the mid-1gth century onward, it removed the last obstacles preventing a Jew from getting to the top.
Converted Jews in England became baronets, peers, MP's and one, Benjamin Disraeli, even became Prime Minister.?
On the European Continent, Judaism remained an obstacle not just to a political career but also to many forms of economic activity. Even in Western Europe, the process begun in 1789-91 for Jews to become citizens in France took 80 years to complete
'Heine was one of the most significant German poets of the | 9th century. He was also a journalist, essayist, and literary critic. He converted to Christianity in hope of being accepted into the social and cultural life of Germany.
2 Karl Marx was baptized at the age of 6
3 Disraeli was converted by his father in 1817 when he was 12 years old.
purely in a nominal legal sense. Further east, especially in Russia and Rumania, Jewish disabilities remained severe. There were many delays and uncertainties on the way to emancipation, which explains why so many Jews took their 'ticket' to society through baptism.
2. WISSENSCHAFT DES JUDENTUMS: Conversion was not the only response by Jews to their emancipation - a number of lews thought that the hostility toward Jews resulted from society's ignorance of Judaism, its history and contributions to European culture.
These Jews wanted Judaism to be seen as a religion of rich culture and profound significance(see Eduard Gans p. I14). Leopold Zunz* (1794-1886) and his colleagues set up a Society for Jewish Culture and Science, whose object was to investigate the nature of Judaism by modern scientific methods and demonstrate the universal value of Jewish knowledge.
This association was known as the Science of Judaism or in German,
Wissenschaft des Judentums.
The association realized that its goal was not being met and attitudes of Christian society were not changing toward the Jews and thus it was dissolved in 1824. Most of the members of the Wissenschaft des Judentum converted to Christianity to be able to enter freely into the academic world. Leopold Zunz himself plodded on. He translated an enormous of Jewish literature, especially midrashim and liturgical poetry. He also elaborated a philosophy of Jewish history.
Zunz's "scientific" presentation of Jewish history and learning might have made an impression of gentile society, but it also involved a severance from a great part of judaism.
Despite this bias, the scholarly importance of Zunz's studies remains unquestioned to this day.
3. REFORM JUDAISM: another response to the emancipation of the Jews was the
Reform movement. The roots of Reform Judaism come from the beginning of the modern age in Germany. Reform Judaism was born in the effort and in the hope that changes in Judaism and Jewish practice would stop the terrible wave of assimilation and conversion of the hundreds of thousands of Jews in Germany. Something had to be done to revive self-respect and self-knowledge in large sections of the Jewish people.
At first no one knew that the ideas of reform (change) would become a moyement.
Individual synagogues, such as the ones in Seesen, Hamburg and Berlin tried to
These reformers wanted to make their synagogues more attractive so that Jews would not to drawn to Protestant or Catholic churches.
4 Zunz became known as the father of modern Jewish scholarship
As more and more synagogues in Western Europe began to make similar changes, there was a need for the leaders to meet and share their ideas and vision. To meet this need, several rabbinical conferences of reformers were held between 1844-1871. At these conferences the leaders tries to work out exactly what this new Reform Judaism should mean and how this would be accomplished. At the second conference in Frankfurt in
1845, the reformers wanted to greatly reduce the use of Hebrew in synagogue services.
When Zecharias Frankel, one of the rabbis attending the conference, saw this he left the meeting and he started another movement (see response #5).
The reformers found that they shared some basic ideas. They believed that Judaism was to be seen as a developing, evolving religion, one that would disappear if it was not kept up to date with constant reform and change. Mitzvot and customs like Kashrut, strict
Shabbat, holiday observance and the use of Hebrew alone for prayer were abandoned and the Reform movement was born.
Abraham Geiger (1810-1874) was the leading thinker för Reform Judaism: Geiger.
believed in "progressive revelation" whereby the practice of Judaism had to be changed periodically as God's will was made manifest and as conditions changed. In a private letter he wrote in 1836, he spoke of the need to abolish all the institutions of
Judaism and rebuild them on a new basis. But this was not what he felt able to do in practice. As he grew older, like so many well-educated Jews before and since, he began to feel the pull of traditional Judaism more and more so that his enthusiasm for change abated. The Reformers might have had more impact if they had been able to erect a clearly defined platform of beliefs and practice (as was done in the Pittsburgh platform of
1885), and stick to it. But Geiger was not the only one who failed to find a final resting.
point of faith. The leading reformers differed among themselves.
Rabbinical conferences were held and new prayer books were issued and all of these things provoked fresh controversies.
In one version or another Reform Judaism clearly provided a satisfactory expression of the religious spirit for many thousands of educated Jews. In America, in both its conservative and liberal versions, Reform became an important element of American
Jewish society. But what reform did not do, any more than the 'Science of Judaism', was to solve the Jewish problem. It did not normalize the Jews as a whole because it never spoke for more than a minority. It was, in essence, an alternative to baptism and complete assimilation, among Jews whose faith, or at any rate whose piety, was strong enough to keep them attached to their religion in some form. By the end of the 1840's, it was obvious that it was not going to take over more traditional forms of Judaism, even in enlightened Germany.
4. ORTHODOX JUDAISM was yet another response to the Emancipation. Many Jews steadfastly resisted the changes proposed by the reformers, maintaining any break in the chain of traditions would endanger the foundations of the religion. The most famous early. opponent to Reform was Rabbi Moses Schreiber (1769-1839), born in Germany and later known as the Chatam Sofer. From his position as rabbi in Pressburg, Hungary,
he rallied traditionalist-minded Jews against any changes in the Synagogue service and any change to the practice of Judaism.
Orthodoxy, which held the loyally of most German Jews, had strong spokesmen and the most prominent was Samson Raphael Hirsch (1808-1888). Hirsch was convinced that
Jews could be good citizens, steeped in culture and learning of their own country, and still remain loyal to the laws that had come down through the ages and hence he is associated as the founder of Neo-Orthodoxy.
Hirsch also argued that God's revelation of the Torah on Mount Sinai was a fact and that without Torah there was no Israel. Until a new divine revelation was granted, no change dared be made. Human intelligence could not measure itself against the divine, and it was bold presumption for any generation to set itself up as the possessor of perfect wisdom and as superior to God's expressed will. Hirsch was a powerful writer and preacher and believed that it was an excellent thing to combine Torah with the ways of the world - Yafeh Torah im Derech Ertez.
5. CONSERVATIYE JUDAIsM was the fifth response to the Emancipation and it took a midway position between Reform and Neo-Orthodoxy. Led by Zecharias Frankel (1801-1875) who was the president of the rabbinical seminary in Breslau, this movement was originally known as Positive Historical Judaism. It emphasized the importance of the historical continuity of the Jewish heritage. The adherents of the Historical School knew that change was inevitable and acknowledged that Judaism had undergone changes throughout its history. Followers of this movement insisted the innovations had to be within the framework of Jewish tradition and thus Tradition and Change' became the slogan of the Conservative movement.

=== ABRAHAM MENDELSSOHN: LETTER TO HIS DAUGHTER ===
ABRAHAM MENDELSSOHN
Why I Have Raised You as a Christian:
A Letter to His Daughter1
My dear Daughter,
You have taken an important step, and in sending you my best wishes for the day and for your future happiness, I have it at heart to speak seriously to you on subjects hitherto not touched upon.
Does God exist? What is God? Is He a part of ourselves, and does He continue to live after the other part has ceased to be? And where? And how? All this I do not know, and therefore I have never taught you anything about it. But I know that there exists in me and in you and in all human beings an everlasting inclination towards all that is good, true, and right, and a conscience which warns and guides us when we go astray. I know it, I believe it, Ilive in this faith, and this is my religion. This I could not teach you, and
• nobody can learn it; but everybody has it who does not intentionally and knowingly cast it away. The example of your mother, the best and noblest of mothers, whose whole life is devotion, love and charity, is like a bond to me that you will not cast it away. You have grown up under her guidance, ever intuitively ieceiving and adopting what alone gives real worth to mankind. Your mother nothing that can lead you away from what is food; and much that guides you to love, bedience, tolerance, and resignation, even if it offered nothing but the example of its
Founder, understood by so few, and followed by still fewer.
By pronouncing your confession of faith you have fulfilled the claims of society on you, and obtained the name of a Christian. Now be what your duty as a human being demands of you, true, faithful, good; obedient and devoted.
NOTE
1. Abraham Mendelssohn (1776-1835), son of
Moses Mendelssohn. A deist and a rationalist by conviction, Abraham brought up his children-
Fanny and Felix-as Protestants in order to improve their social opportunities. In 1822 he and his has been, and is, and I trust will long remain to you, to your sister and brothers, and to all of us, a providential leading staı on our path of life. When you look at her and tum over in your thoughts all the imuneasurable good she has lavished upon you by her constant selfsacrificing devotion as long as you live, and when that reflection makes your heart and eyes overflow with gratitude, love, and veneration, then you feel God and are godly.
This is all I can tell you about religion, all I know about it; but this will remain true, as long as one man will exist in the creation, as it has been true since the first man was created.
The outward form of religion your teacher has given you is historical, and changeable like all human ordinances. Some thousands of year ago the Jewish form was the reigning one, then the heathen form, and now it is the
Christian. We, your mother and I, were born and brought up by our parents as Jews, and without being obliged to change the form of our religion have been able to follow the divine instinct in us and in our conscience.
We have educated you and your brothers and sister in the Christian faith, because it is the creed of most civilized people, and contains till death to your mother, and I may also say to your father, unremittingly attentive to the voice of your conscience, which may be suppressed but never silenced, and you will gain the highest happiness that is to be found on earth, harmony and contentedness with yourself.
I embrace you with fatherly tenderness, and hope always to find in you a daughter worthy of your, of our, mother. Farewell, and
Iemember my words.
wife also embraced Christianity "because it is the religious form acceptable to the majority of civilized human beings." He wrote this letter to his daughter Fanny (1805-1847) upon her confirma-.
tion into the Lutheran church.

=== HEINRICH HEINE: A TICKET OF ADMISSION TO EUROPEAN CULTURE ===
HEINRICH HEINE •
1797-1856
Heinrich Heine was born in Düsseldorf on December 13, 1797. His parents, the drapery merchant Samson Heine and his wife Betty, had four children. Heine attended the lycée in
Düsseldorf. In 1814 he attended the merchant school and began an apprenticeship at a bank in Frankfurt in 1815. From 1819 to 1825 he studied law. In 1825 Heine was baptized in the Protestant church. Heinrich Heine died on February 17, 1856 in Paris, and was buried three days later in the Montmartre cemetery.
HEINRICH HEINET
A Ticket of Admission to European Culture
From the nature of my thinking you can deduce that baptism is a matter of indifference to me, that I do not regard it as important even symbolically, and that in the circumstances in which it will be carried out in my case it will have little significance for others likewise. For me perhaps its significance will be that I can better devote myself to championing the rights of my unfortunate brethren. And yet I hold it beneath my dignity and a stain on my honor to undergo conversion in order to obtain a position in
Prussia. Dear old Prussia! I really do not know what course to take in this bad situa-
Ron. TIl turn Catholic yet for spite, and hang
NOTES •
1. Heinrich Heine (1797-1856), German-Jewish poet and essayist. In 1825 he was baptized a Lutheran, with the hope that his conversion would facilitate the gaining of a doctorate and the pursuit of a career as a civil servant or academic. His repeated attempts to secure a position were, however, futile. Finally, after having failed to obtain a promised chair at the University of Munich and fearing police action against himself because of his political satire, he left Germany for Paris in 1831.
myself.... We are living in sad times.
Scoundrels become our "best," and the best must turn scoundrel. I understand well the words of the psalmist: "Lord, give us our daily bread, that we blaspheme not Thy name...."
The baptismal certificate is the ticket of admission to European culture....
My becoming a Christian is the fault of those Saxons who suddenly changed saddles at Leipzig,? or of Napoleon, who really did not have to go to Russia, or of his teacher of geography at Brienne, who did not tell him that Moscow winters are very cold.
He spent the remainder of his life in exile. His attitude to Judaism was complex. He deemed it "a misfortune," but he also wrote warmly and proudly of Judaism. To a friend he once declared, "I make no secret of my Judaism, to which I have not returned, because I never left it."
2. At the battle of Leipzig, October 1813, the
Saxon troops fighting with the French defected to the allies, and thus ensured the defeat of Napoleon.

=== ISRAEL JACOBSON'S TEMPLE ===
THE BEGINNINGS OF REFORM JUDAISM
Israel Jacobson's "Temple".
When Israel Jacobson opened his little "Temple" on July 17, 1810, German Jewry had never seen anything like it. For one thing, Christians as well as Jews attended the opening service.
Jacobson-who was not a rabbi—presided over the service in robes resembling those of a
Protestant clergyman. A full orchestra and choir performed a cantata written especially for the occasion. Then hymns were sung, with organ accompaniment, in German as well as Hebrew.
And after the services there was a reception for more than 370 guests and worshipers. When, asked one writer, had there ever been "a similar day on which Jews and Christians celebrated together in a common service in the presence of more than forty clergymen of both religions, and then sat down to eat and rejoice togetber...?" Jacobson's dedication speech aptly summed up the Reform-spirit of the event.
What I had in mind when I first thought about building this temple was your religious education, my Israelite brothers, your customs, your worship. ... Be it far from me that I should have any secret intention to undermine the pillars of your faith, to diminish our old and honored priticiples through the glitter of new opinions, or that, because of some hidden vanity, I should become a traitor to both our religion and you. You know my faithful adherence to the faith of my fathers. I need not protest it. My' actions will witness for me more than my words. But if I do seek here first some rapprochement between you and our Christian neighbors, I would ask more for your gratitude and honest help than for your criticism or even opposition. For your true and progressive enlightenment depends upon this rapprochement. On it depend the education of your spirit for true religiosity and, at the same tune also, your future greater political welfare.
Who would dare to deny that our service is sickly because of many useless things, that in part it has degenerated into a thoughtless recitation of prayers and formulas, that it kills devotion more than encourages it, and that it limits our religious principles to that fund of knowledge which for centuries has remained in our treasure houses without increase and without ennoblement. On all sides, enlightenment opens up new areas for development. Why should we alone remain behind?
Source: Modern Jewish History: A Source Reader, edited by Robert Chazan and Marc Lee
Raphael (Schocken, 1974), p. 49.

=== CONSTITUTION OF THE HAMBURG TEMPLE ===
THE NEW ISRAELITE TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Constitution of the Hamburg Temple (December I1, 1817)1
... Since public worship has for some time been neglected by so many, because of the ever decreasing knowledge of the language in which alone it has until now been conducted, and also because of many other shortcomings which have crept in at the same time--the undersigned, convinced of the necessity to restore public worship to its de-
• serving dignity and importance, have joined together to follow the example of several
Israelite congregations, especially the one in
Berlin. ' They plan to arrange in this city also, for themselves as well as others who think as they do, a dignified and well-ordered ritual according to which the worship service shall be conducted on Sabbath and holy days and on other solemn occasions, and which shall
. be observed in their own temple, to be
NOTES
1. The New Israelite Temple Association of
Hamburg instituted the first systematic Reform worship services; it was founded by sixty-six Jews, led by Eduard Kley (1789-1867), Meyer Israel Bresselau (1785-1839) and Seckel Isaak Fraenkel (1765-1835)—all of them laymen. The Hamburg
Temple was dedicated on October 18, 1818, the anniversary of the Battle of Leipzig, which marked the liberation of Germany from Napoleonic rule.
Some historians see an ideological motive not only in this gesture but also behind the Reformers naming their synagogue a "temple." That is, that by adopting the designation traditionally reserved for the fallen Temple of Jerusalem, the Reformers symbolically relinquished the hope of Israel's restoration and they declared Hamburg their erected especially tor this purpose. Specifially, there shall be introduced at such services a German sermon, and choral singing to the accompaniment of an organ.
Incidentally, the above-mentioned ritual shall not be confined to services in the temple; rather it shall apply to all those religious customs and acts of daily life which are sanctified by the church or by their own nature. Outstanding amongst these are the entrance of the newly-born into the covenan of the fathers, weddings, and the like. Also, a religious ceremony shall be introduced in which the children of both sexes, after having
received adequate schooling in the teachings of the faith, shall be accepted as confirmants of the Mosaic religion.
Jerusalem. Other historians ascribe to the Reformers the more innocent motive of simply wishing to distinguish their house of worship from the traditional synagogue of Hamburg.
2 On the Feast of Weeks in the year 1815, Israel
Jacobson (1768-1828)—the father of German Reform, the founder of a Reform temple in Sessen,
Westphalia-inaugurated a "private" Reform worship service in his Berlin home. Later the services moved to the home of Jacob Herz-Beer, a wealthy
Berlin banker. Due to the opposition of the conservative Prussian government the Reform synagogue of Berlin was closed down in 1817. Eduard Kley had served as a preacher in Beer's synagogue.
3. This word was intended to underscore th purely religious character of the Hamburg Temple my THE HAMBURG TEMPLE
2. Açcording to this article, "public worship has been neglected for some time by so many..." why do you think this is the case?
4. List and explain the innovations that are being introduced at the Hamburg
Temple.

=== FRANKFURT CONFERENCE: HEBREW AS THE LANGUAGE OF JEWISH PRAYER (Frankel, Geiger) ===
THE REFORM RABBINICAL CONFERENCE AT BRUNSWICK
I. According to footnote #1, why was it important for the new Reform congregations to establish common principles?
3. What is the historical significance of the following quote: "The Jew considers members of the people with whom he lives his brethren."?
THE REFORM RABBINICAL CONFERENCE AT FRANKFURT
Hebrew as the Language of Jewish Prayer1
Third Session, morning, July 16, 1845... The
President moves that it would seem desirable to discuss the report [of the Commission on
Liturgy] immediately.
Question 1: To what degree is the Hebrew language necessary for the public prayer service and, if not necessary, is its retention advisable for the time being?
Report of the committee: With respect to question one, the Hebrew language is not in every instance objectively necessary for the service, nor does the Talmud, with very minor exceptions, prescribe it. But since a.
large part of the Israelites in contemporary
Germany seem to feel a subjective necessity for it, the committee considers the use of the
Hebrew language advisable for typical parts of the liturgy: the barechu,? the parshat shema, 3 the three first and three last benedictions of the liturgy and the blessings upon reading of the Torah, should be recited in
Hebrew; all other parts of the liturgy may be recited in a German adaptation.
The President, in accordance with the proposal of the committee, now poses the question: Is praying in the Hebrew language objectively, legally necessary lobjektio gesetzlich notwendig]?
Frankel4 takes the floor. He deems the occasion important enough to begin with a few general observations. This rabbinical conference consists of the guides and teachers of the people. They are familiar with the people's needs and sorrow; it is their duty to satisty these needs, to alleviate these sorrows, and to prevent any discord [among the people]. It is the duty of the rabbinical conference to show and to attest that it is moved by serious and sacred aspirations. Its spokesmen, therefore, have to begin by stating their principles.
It is the pride of Judaism that no person, and no social class, may presume authority, but that every decision must evolve organically fron principles and derive its validity therefrom. Points of view may be stated and put to the vote, but without principles they are merely private opinions. First of all, there.
fore, the people are entitled to an exposition of our principles....
The, speaker now explains his principles
He'stands for a positive, historical Judaism
[This approach posits that in order to under-
stand Judaism in the present one must look back and investigate its past.
The positive forms of Judaism are deeply rooted within its innermost being and must not be discarded coldly and heartlessly.
Where would we be if we were to tear apart our inner life and let a new life spring forth from our head as Minerva sprang forth from the head of Jupiter. We cannot retum to the
• letter of Scripture. The gap [between it and us] is too wide to be bridged. Even a new exegesis of the Bible is subject to changing phases of scholarship and could not serve as a foundation of a firm edifice. Should we allow any influence on the Zeitgeist, on the spirit of the time? But the Zeitgeist is as fickle as the times. Besides, it is cold. It may seem reasonable, but it will never satisfy, console and calm the soul; Judaism, on the other hand,
• always inspires and fills the soul with bliss..
The reform of Judaism, moreover, is not a reform of faith, but one of religious comnandments. These still live within the people and exert their influence. We are not called upon to weaken, butrather to strengthen this influence. We must not consider the individuals who do not abide by them; we are not a party and must therefore take care of the whole. Now it is necessary to conserve the things which are truly sacred to the entire people, to prevent any schism in Israel.
Rather than creating new parties, we must make peace between the existing ones....
Fourth Session, afternoon, July 16, 1845.
....Geigers demands a strict adherence to the expression of the problem as consisting of the following two questions:
1. Is the complete exclusion of the Hebrew language from the liturgy in general desirable?
2. Are there momentary considerations in favour of a provisional solution?
Both questions, however, overlap and cannot be strictly separated in the debate.
The speaker considers it desirable to pray in the mother tongue, which is the language of the soul. Our deepest emotions and feelings, our most sacred relationships, our most sublime thoughts find their expression in it. He feels compelled to admit that as regards himself—although Hebrew is his first mother tongue which he has learnt before other languages, and a language he knows thor-.
oughly—a German prayer strikes a deeper chord than a Hebrew prayer.
The Hebrew language, he continues, has ceased to be alive for the people, and the language of Jewish] prayer is certainly not the language of the Scripture any more. It is obvious, moreover, that even a reading from the Torah tires a large part of the community.
The introduction of the vernacular into the service, it is claimed, effects the disappearance of the Hebrew language and thus undermines the foundations of Judaism. To this objection the speaker repies that anyone who imagines Judaism to be walking on the crutches of a language deeply offends it. By considering Hebrew as being of centra. importance to Judaism, moreover, one would define it as a national religion, because a separate language is a characteristic element of a separate nation. But no member of this conference, the speaker concluded would wish to link Judaism to a particular nation....
Fifth Session, morning, July 17, 1845....
Frankel [takes the floor]. The ongoing debate, far from offering new ideas, has rather confirmed [Frankel's] point of view. Geiger considers a language to be the mark of a separate nationality and claims that the retention of
Hebrew would testify to our national aspirations; this point, however, is not essential to the question under consideration. The cause of emancipation has nothing to do with religion, and no religious aspect should be sacrificed for it. Everything pertaining to religion must be retained, and if our nationality were religious, then we should openly confess to it.
In countries that have granted the Jews full] emancipation, & such as Holland and
France, he continues, experience has fortunately shown that the Hebrew language does not prevent the Jews from being genuine.
patriots and from fulfilling all duties towards the state. One has to be very careful with such expressions; our meetings are public, theres'-f
fore "O Sages, be careful with your words.'"
If Geiger goes on to claim that a German prayer strikes a deeper chord in him than a
Hebrew one, he makes a purely subjective statement. Most speakers of Hebrew will feel differently, because this language is a stronger expression of religious emotions; as witnesses, the speaker calls upon the majority of Rabbis assembled here, who are familiar with the Hebrew language.
Hebrew, the speaker argues, is the language of our Scripture which contains every ingredient of our religion. Religion must pro-
. vide not only an abstract but also an external bond between us and the deity, this being the reason for precepts such as the tephillin and the mezuzah®; in like manner, the use of Hebrew in the prayers serves as an exteral bond. Ihe language of the Scripture is constant reminder of; our Covenant with
God. These various bonds and reminders resemble the sheaf of arrows in the following parable: As long'as they remain bound together a sheaf of arrows is unbreakable, but as soon as single arrows are removed from the sheaf it will quickly fall apart. Many characteristic elements of Judaism have been effaced by now, it is time to halt the process.
There is another aspect to be considered as well. The Bible has been given to the Jews as a pledge to be safeguarded; they were called upon to carry it through the world for thousands of years. Mind you, not the priests of Israel alone were called upon to do so, but all of Israel. Samuel already, by establishing schools for prophets, undermined the hierarchy; it is therefor written of him, "Moses and
Aaron among His priests, and Samuel among them that call upon His name.:. " [Ps. 99:6; cited in Hebrew], and the Talmud rightly remarks,
"Samuel is equivalent to Moses and
Aaron. "10 If the original texts of the Scripture were to become the exclusive property of a separate class of rabbis we should soon have a separation of priests and layinen again. But all of us object to the establishment of a caste of priests and wish to obliterate all memory of it. That is why our youth has to be instructed in the Hebrew language so thatit may understand the service and the Scripture.
The speaker adds, however, that it is necessary to conduct part of the service in
German; but Hebrew must prevail. The language of revelation, in which God has spoken to Moses, must act as an edifying stimulus. Hebrew, in fact, is so essential to our service that its use should have been secured by [halakhic] law; had anyone ever thoughtof abandoning the Hebrew language, such a law would certainly have been passed. The sages allowed another language besides Hebrew in the service [i.e, Aramaic]" merely out of consideration for the weak who could not find their peace of mind in a Hebrew prayer. They never thought of excluding the
Hebrew language from the Temple...
PHILIPPSON: All extremes are to. be avoided, and according to the general consensus neither Hebrew nor German should be excluded from the service. The question, then, is one of proportions. We do not work for the moment and for individual communities; we work for the future and for the whole [of Jewry). The Hebrew and the German elements must be organically melted into one another.
We shall have to distinguish between prayer and public services. A prayer is the expression of the particular states and emotions of the soul, of happiness and unhappiness, of joy and of suffering, of sorrow, repentance and penance; here, a full understanding is necessary, and a foreign language utterly useless. The public prayer services, on the other hand, do not refer to the individual
[per se]; public prayer is intended to stimulate, to teach and to express the confession.
The Hebrew language certainly serves as a stimulus. In it, for the first time, the shema :
["Hear, O Israel, " Deut. 6:4], the unity of God was expressed; the principle of pure love for mankind, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" (Lev. 19:18; cited in Hebrew); the sentence of the equality of all men before the law, "one law and one ordinance" [Num.
15:16; cited in Hebrew]; Moses spoke to God in Hebrew, "O Lord God, Thou has begun to show Thy servant Thy greatness... " Deut.
3:24]. God had begun to reveal Hiriself to him. By using the original expressions, there-
fore, the public prayer service acts as a powerful stimulus.
When the Torah is read the Hebrew language will also act as a teacher. This reading must not be abolished, otherwise the people would lose all contact with the Scripture...
As a center of the confessions the Hebrew language is indispensable. The German Jews are Germans, they feel and think in German and wish to live and act as patriots. But
Judaism is not German, it is universal. The
Diaspora of the Jews is not tantamount to the
Diaspora of Judaison; the latter, on the cohe rary, must keep its unified character. The content of this character is the confession; its form is represented in the Hebrew language.
As citizens, we all strive towards unity with our fellow countrymen; as members of a religion, however, we are allowed, and even
. obliged, to retain that which distinguishes us. Facing an immense majority, the minority needs some distinguishing features. The Hebrew language fulfills this purpose.
The Hebrew language, moreover, neither poor nor dead, as it is claimed. Masterpieces of unperishable value have been written in it, and as a language of religion it has remained fully alive. Io repeat, the Hebrew language must be retained, but at the same time it must be organically united with the German element:'
KAHN: 12 I am only speaking from an objeclive point of view. I certainly wish to retain the Hebrew language for the time being, but te must gratefully acknowledge that its use for our prayers is nowhere prescribed. Our ideal, therefore, should be the establishment ofa purely German service, because language by itself does not constitute a religious ele-
Our school ought to teach in Hebrew; the service, however, airs at edification, elevation, instruction; it should not be turned into a means for the preservation of the Hebrew language.
It is claimed that the Hebrew expression
Adonai (i.e.,God) sounds more solemn than the German word Gott. Io this differentiaton 1 must seriously object, because it would cast a heavy doubt on our civil oath. 13 The name Gott is as sacred to me as Adonai, and I hope that everybody here will agree with me.
on this. (General and loud consent.)
We should not have any religious element wiested from us. Granted. But we must first concur regarding the nature of religious elements. Language is not one of them. The shema ["Hear, O Israel" sounds much more religious to the German when spoken in
German, and much more edifying to the Eiglishman when spoken in English, than when spoken in unintelligible Hebrew. With the elimination of the Hebrew language
[from the liturgy], then, nothing would really be lost.... I vote for the introduction of a purely German service....
LOEWENGARD: 14 It was said: "We are Germans and want to be Germans!" If this statement has any political implications I should like to remind you that we are not yet eman-
*cipated. (Disapproval from all sides. The speaker explains that he merely wants to keep all political aspects out of the debate, because their introduction only causes misunderstanding.) From the religious point of view, a distinction was made between prayer and service; this was correct. The reading from the Torah, for instance, is meant to demonstrate the unity of
Israel established by the Torah, as it is expressed in "And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel."15 Instruction [in the Torah] could be managed without this public reading, because [printed] Bibles are available in sufficient numbers now. As a • demonstration [of Jewish unity], however, it should be sufficient to read selections from the Hebrew Pentateuch [at the public service and notalso the traditional passages from the prophets].
NOTES
1. With thirty rabbis in attendance, this conference took place in Frankfurt am Main from the fifteenth to the eighteenth of July 1845. The
Frankfurt conference was devoted to the consideraton of the report of the Commission on Liturgy established at the previous conference at
Brunswick.
• As a consequence of the new cultural and political situation of the Jews, two distinct problems emerged with regard to the continued use of Hebrew as the language of Jewish public worship:
First with the neglect of traditional Jewish learning,
Hebrew was increasingly unintelligible to many
Jews, and second it was feared that the use of the
"national language of the ancient commonwealth of Israel" would seem to vitiate the Jews' patriotic affiliation to the country of theirresidence. Accordingly, the Commission on Liturgy was requested to reevaluate the place of Hebrew in the liturgy
2. Part of the daily service, the barechu ("Praise the Lord who is to be praised... ") calls the congregation to prayer, and affirms the belief in Creation as divine providence. It is followed by parshat shema.
3. Consisting of the shema (Deut. 6:4-9) and accompanying blessings (largely drawn from Deut.
11:13-21, and Num. 15:37-41), the parshat shema, recited daily, proclaims Israel's. acceptance of
God's sovereignty and the yoke of His Commandments; it links this proclamation with the doctrines of Creation, Revelation and Redemption.
4. Zecharias Frankel (1801-1875). At the time of the conference he was the chief rabbi of Dresden and the founding editor of the Zeitschrift fuer die religioesen Interessen des Judenthums Jownal for the religious interests of Judaism], published from
1844 to 1847. An exponent of "moderate Reform,"
as he put it, Frankel criticized the Brunswick conference (which he declined to attend) for appropriating the authority of an ecclesiastical synod, when in fact it was no more than a consultative body. Further, he charged that the conference demonstrated a single lack of deference to the regnant sentiments of the Jewish people. He decided to attend the Frankfurt conference in order to assure that-his colleagues would not exceed their prerogatives.
5. Abraham Geiger (1810-1874). At the time of the conference he was chief rabbi of Breslau and the founding editor of the Wissenschaftlickhe Zeitschrift fuer juedische Theologie [Scientific journal for Jewish theology), 6 vols., 1835-1847. Considered the guiding spirit of the frst rabbinical conferences, Geiger emerged as the leading theoretician and spokesman of Reform in Germany. He sought to ground the study of Judaism in a scholarly, historical approach (see chapter 5) that would validate Reform's conception of Judaism as an ongoing evolutionary process.
6. The Jews of Germany, of course, did not at this time enjoy full civil and political rights.
7. Mishnah, Ethics of the Fathers 1:11; cited in
Hebrew.
8. Phylacteries, two small black boxes fastened to leather straps, containing four portions of the
Pentateuch written on parchment (Exod, 13:1-16;
Deut. 6:4-9 and 11:13-21). They are bound ("laid")
on the arm and the head of the male Jew during the morning prayers."
9. Parchment scroll placed in a container and fixed to the doorpost of the Jew's abode. On the scroll are inscribed portions from Deut. 6:4-9 and
11:13-21-
10. Talmud, tractate Berakhot 31b; cited in Hebrew.
11. Aramaic is a cognate of Hebrew that was for many centuries the vernacular of Palestine. Biblical readings were translated into Aramaic in the synagogue for the benefit of congregants who did not understand Hebrew. Some of the prayers of the traditional liturgy are still in Aramaic, most notably the doxology known as the kaddish.
12. Joseph Kahn (1809-1875). He was the chief rabbi of Treves (Trier), where he officiated for more than thirty years.
13. In the Middle Ages a practice was instituted that required the Jews to make a special oath (more
Judaico) when testifying before a non-Jewish court.
Assuming that the Jews did not respect Christian jurisprudence, these oaths bound the Jew's testimony under rabbinic law. The oaths were accompanied by self-imposed curses, delineating the punishment, often in gruesome detail, if the testimony was falsely made; sometimes they were accompanied by humiliatingrites, such as standing on a sow's skin. In France the more Judaico was abolished only in 1846, in parts of Germany not until the second half of the nineteenth century; it.
was still administered in Rumania as late as 1904.
The Duchy of Brunswick abrogated the practice in
1845.
14. Joseph Loewengard, rabbi of Lenren-
Steinfels.
15. Deut, 4:44; cited in Hebrew.

=== ABRAHAM GEIGER: INTRODUCTION ===
ABRAHAM GEIGER
REFORM RABBI WHO FOUGHT FOR MOVEMENT'S RECOGNITION
AS PART OF JEWISH TRADITION
Rabbi Louis Jacobs, The Jewish Religion: A Companion. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1995,
Abraham Geiger was a Reform rabbi and scholar (1810-74). Geiger, born in Frankfurt, received the traditional Talmudic education of his day and later studied at various
German universities and was thus well equipped to become one of the pioneers of the
Jüdische Wissenschaft movement, in which the historical-critical method was employed to uncover the sources of Judaism and the way in which the religion developed.
After occupying various Rabbinic positions (serving in Breslau as an Orthodox rabbi where he met with determined opposition on the part of the Orthodox), Geiger became the Director of the Hochschüle in Berlin, a position he occupied until his death.
Geiger's two major works... focused on the influence of Judaism on Islam and the
Koran and ... an examination of the text and contents of the Bible in the spirit of modern biblical criticism (then in its infancy).
For all his scholarly eminence, Geiger was rot content to live and work in an academic ivory-tower but believed his research and those of his colleagues demonstrated that the
Reform movement followed in the tradition of Judaism as a developing religion and this impelled him to struggle for the recognition of Reform as the tendency demanded once
Jews had become members of Western society. As Geiger saw it, the nationalistic and particularistic aspects of Judaism reflected no more than stages in Judaism's progress towards universalism.
•He advocated, therefore, the substitution of German for the Hebrew of many prayers and the rejection of the idea of a return to Zion and the rebuilding of the Temple, in.
favor of the idea that lews have a mission to all mankind; although he did believe in a version of the Chosen People idea according to which Jews had been especially gifted with the powerful religious sense that resulted in the emergence of ethical monotheism.
Geiger was strongly opposed to the neo-Orthodoxy of Samson Raphael Hirsch, a friend of his youth, and to the conservative philosophy of Zecharias Frankel, but he was less radical in his Reform stance than S. Holdheim, whose ideas seemed to Geiger to destroy continuity with the Jewish past. Unlike Holdheim, Geiger steadfastly refused to countenance the transfer of the Sabbath to Sunday. Such a step would imply that
Judaism was moving closer to Christianity. Any move in this direction was vehemently opposed by Geiger.
For. the same reason Geiger refused to countenance any attempt to abolish circumcision, despite the fact that, in a private letter, he once described it as a "barbaric act" Orthodox Jews to this day consider Geiger to be an arch heretic, though there is often to be observed, even among the Orthodox, a grudging admiration for his great learning.

=== GEIGER: PREFACE TO THE FRANKFURT PRAYERBOOK ===
Abraham Geiger, "Preface to the Frankfurt Prayerbook
%. Consequently, the "national aspect of Israel must recede into the background:
(i) The separation between Israel and the other peoples, which
_existed at one time, has no right to be expressed in prayer.
Rather ought there to be an expression of the joy that such • barriers are increasingly falling.
(i) The exalted feeling of a noble spiritual vocation mustavoid any appearance of overbearance, and miust shun any side glances at
"other peoples."
(il) The look into the future should arouse the happy hope in the unification of all mankind, in truth, in justice, and in peace.
However, wholly faded from our consciousness is the belief in the restoration of a Jewish State in Palestine, and, correspondingly, in the building of a temple in Jerusalem to serve as the point of unification for Israel: The same applies to the belief in the Ingathering of the Dispersed and to everything connected with such a restoration of vanished circumstances. The expression of such a hope in prayer, the petition for its realization, would be a blatant untruth.

=== THE PITTSBURGH PLATFORM (1885) ===
THE PITTSBURGH PLATFORM
The Pittsburgh. Platform was a formulation of principles agreed upon by the Reform movement in 1885 at a Conference in Pittsburgh, PA. The conference was called together by Kaufmann Kohler of New York and was chaired by Isaac M. Wise of
Cincinnati, the foremost figure in Reform Judaism in the United States. The Pittsburgh
Platform symbolized the merger of the Eastern U.S. Reform leadership with the
Western U.S., more Germanic-oriented, leadership.
At its founding in 1889, the Central Conference of American Rabbis (CCAR), the Reform rabbinical organization, adopted the platform and it remained the major statement of the basic tenets of Reform Judaism until its extensive revision by the CCAR in
Columbus, Ohio, in 1937.
. An examination of the platform indicates its religious optimism. It is prepared to accept the legitimacy of other religious perspectives; all religions have some truth, but judaism has the highest truth. It places its emphasis on the Bible - in contrast to the Talmud but the Bible is described not as divine revelation but as the consecration of the Jewish people to its mission. The third element of the platform establishes the moral codes of
Jewish tradition but discards the obligations of non-moral, ritual dimensions of the tradition. It treats laws as utilitarian; modernity becomes the key to the acceptance of laws. The fourth principle rejects halachic restrictions on diet, priestly purity, and dress.
Again, modern sensibility becomes the standard. The fifth principle embraces modernity as the realization of Israel's dream of a messianic age, rejecting the return to Zion and the restoration of sacrifice as stated in the platform: "We consider ourselves no longer resurrection and a belief in heaven and hell as alien imports into Judaism. And the final element of the platform asserts the agenda of religious liberalism, working for justice and righteousness.
The following points were agreed upon and became known as the Pittsburgh Platform:
FiRST - We recognize in every religion an attempt to grasp the Infinite, and in every mode, source, or book or revelation held sacred in any religious system, the consciousness of the indwelling of God in man. We hold that Judaism presents the highest conception of the God idea as taught in our holy Scriptures and developed and spiritualized by the Jewish teachers, in accordance with the moral and philosophical progress of their respective ages. We maintain that Judaism preseryed and defended, midst continual struggles and trials and under enforced isolation, this God idea as the central religious truth for the human race.
SECOND - We recognize in the Bible the record of the consecration of the Jewish
• people to its mission as priest of the one God, and value it as the most potent instrument of religious and moral instruction. We hold that the modern discoveries of scientific researches in the domains of nature and history are not antagonistic to the doctrines of Judaism, the Bible reflecting the primitive ideas of its own age, and at times clothing its conception of Divine Providence and justice, dealing with man in miraculous narratives.
THIRD - We recognize in the Mosaic legislation a system of training the Jewish people for its mission during its national life in Palestine, and today we accept as binding only the moral laws, and maintain only such ceremonies as elevate and sanctify our lives, but.
reject all such as are not adapted to the views and habits of modern civilization.
FOURTH - We hold that all such Mosaic and rabbinical laws as regulate diet, priestly purity, and dress, originated in ages and under the influence of ideas altogether foreign to our present mental and spiritual state. They fail to impress the modern jew with a spirit of priestly holiness; their observance in our days is apt rather to obstruct than to further modern spiritual elevation.
FIFTH - We recognize, in the modern era of universal culture of heart and intellect, the approaching of the realization of Israel's great messianic hope for the establishment of the kingdom of truth, justice, and peace among all men. We consider ourselves no longer a nation, but a religious community, and therefore expect neither a return to
Palestine, nor a sacrificial worship under the sons of Aaron, nor the restoration of any of the laws concerning the Jewish state.
SIXTH - We recognize in Judaism a progressive religion, ever striving to be in accord with the postulates of reason. We are convinced of the utmost necessity of preserving the historical identity with our great past. Christianity and Islam being daughter religions of Judaism, we appreciate their providential mission to aid in the spreading. of monotheistic and moral truth. We acknowledge that the spirit of broad humanity of our age is our ally in the fulfillment of our mission, and therefore, we extend the hand of fellowship to all who operate with us in the establishment of the reign of truth and righteousness among men.
SEVENTH - We reassert the doctrine of Judaism, that the soul of man is immortal, grounding this belief on the divine nature of the human spirit, which forever finds bliss in righteousness and misery in wickedness. We reject as ideas not rooted in Judaism the beliefs both in bodily resurrection and in Gehenna and Eden (Hell and Paradise) as abodes for everlasting punishment or reward.
EIGHTH - In full accordance with the spirit of Mosaic legislation, which strives to regulate the relation between rich and poor, we deem it our duty to participate in the great task of modern times, to solve on the basis of justice and righteousness, the problems presented by the contrasts and evils of the present organization of society.
. These principles defined Reform Judaism for almost half a century and distinguished it from Orthodox Judaism and. Conservative Judaism as well as from Zionism. The •
Pittsburgh Platform is often referred to as Classical Reform Judaism. Reform rabbis, even leaders of the movement, did not necessarily adhere to these principles. Many were more Zionist in their orientation. Some were more observant, but it gave an ethos to the movement, one that was significantiy rejected in 1937 with the Columbus
Platform and by generations thereafter.
THe PITTSBURGH PLATFORM, 1885

=== THE COLUMBUS PLATFORM (1937) ===
THE COLUMBUS PLATFORM - 1937
THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF REFORM JUDAISM
Earlier conferences of Reform Jewish Rabbis had declared that the Jews are not a people, and that the goal of "Israel" was not return to its homeland but dispersal of the Jews to form a spiritual "light unto the nations." In the words of the Pittsburgh conference of 1869:
The Messianic aim of Israel is not the restoration of the old Jewish state under a descendant of David, involving a second separation from the nations of the earth, but the union of all the children of God in the confession of the unity of G-d, so as to realize the unity of all rational creatures and their call to moral sanctification.
By 1937, the looming tragedy of European Jewry may not have been apparent to all, but the failure of assimilation was evident.' It became clear to the Jews of Germany and
Austria that they would not be accepted as Germans of the Mosaic faith, Orthodox
German Jews or even as converted Christian Germans. The central ideas of Reform
Judaism seemed to have collapsed in the country that had given birth to Reform Judaism.
At the same time, the Zionist community in Palestine was a modest success, and the dream of a Jewish homeland became viable.
The triumph of Zionism and the modern Hebrew language in Reform Judaism was a slow triumph of reality over dogma, conditioned by the creation of the Jewish State and the material success of Israel.
THE COLÚMBUS PLATFORM, 1937
In view of the changes that have taken place in the modern world and the consequent need of stating anew the teachings of Reform Judaism, the Central Conference of American
Rabbis makes the following declaration of principles. It presents them not as a fixed creed but as a guide for the progressive elements of Jewry.
A. Judaism and its Foundations
Nature of Judaism. Judaișm is the historical religious experience of the Jewish people. Though growing out of Jewish life, its message is universal, aiming at the union and perfection of mankind under the sovereignty of God. Reform Judaism recognizes the principle of progressive development in religion and consciously applies this principle to spiritual as well as to cultural and social life. Judaism welcomes all truth, whether written in the pages of scripture or deciphered from the records of nature. The new discoveries of science, while replacing the older scientific views underlying our sacred literature, do not conflict with the essential spirit of
' The Nuremberg Laws were passed in 1935 stripping Jews of their German citizenship
2.
3.
4.
religion as manifested in the consecration of man's will, heart and mind to the service of God and of humanity.
God. The heart of Judaism and its chief contribution to religion is the doctrine of the
One, living God, who rules the world through law and love. In Him all existence has its creative source and mankind its ideal of conduct. Though transcending time and space, He is the indwelling Presence of the world. We worship Him as the Lord of the universe and as our merciful Father.
Man. Judaism affirms that man is created in the Divine image. His spirit is immortal.
He is an active co-worker with God: As a child of God, he is endowed with moral freedom and is charged with the responsibility of overcoming evil and striving after ideal ends.
Torah. God reveals Himself not only in the majesty, beauty and orderliness of nature, but also in the vision and moral striving of the human spirit. Revelation is a continuous process, confined to no one group and to no one age. Yet the people of
Israel, through its prophets and sages, achieved unique insight in the realm of religious truth. The Torah, both written and oral, enshrines Israel's ever-growing consciousness of God and of the moral law. It preserves the historical precedents, sanctions and norms of Jewish life, and seeks to mould it in the patterns of goodness and of holiness. Being products of historical processes, certain of its laws have lost their binding force with the passing of the conditions that called them forth. But as a depository of permanent spiritual ideals, the Torah remains the dynamic source of the life of Israel. Each age has the obligation to adapt the teachings of the Torah to its basic needs in consonance with the genius of Judaism.
Israel. Judaism is the soul of which Israel is the body. Living in all parts of the world,
Israel has been held together by the ties of a common history, and above all, by the heritage of faith. Though we recognize in the group loyalty of Jews who have become estranged from our religious tradition, a bond which still unites them with us, we maintain that it is by its religion and for its religion that the Jewish people has lived.
The non-jew who accepts our faith is welcomed as a full member of the Jewish community. In all lands where our people live, they assume and seek to share loyally the full duties and responsibilities of citizenship and to create seats of Jewish knowledge and religion. In the rehabilitation of Palestine, the land hallowed by memories and hopes, we behold the promise of renewed life for many of our brethren. We affirm the obligation of all Jewry to aid in its upbuilding as a Jewish homeland by endeavoring to make it not only a haven of refuge for the oppressed but also a center of Jewish culture and spiritual life. Throughout the ages it has been
IsraelÕs mission to witness to the Divine in the face of every form of paganism and materialism. We regard it as our historic task to cooperate with all men in the establishment of the kingdom of God, of universal brotherhood, Justice, truth and peace on earth. This is our Messianic goal.
B. Ethics
6. Ethics and Religion. In Judaism religion and morality blend into an indissoluble unity. Seeking God means to strive after holiness, righteousness and goodness. The love of God is incomplete without the love of one's fellowmen. Judaism emphasizes the kinship of the human race, the sanctity and worth of human life and personality and the right of the individual to freedom and to the pursuit of his chosen vocation.
justice to all, irrespective of race, sect or class, is the inalienable right and the inescapable obligation of all. The state and organized government exist in order to further these ends.
7.
Social justice. Judaism seeks the attainment of a just society by the application of its teachings to the economic order, to industry and commerce, and to national and international affairs. It aims at the elimination of man-made misery and suffering, of poverty and degradation, of tyranny and slavery, of social inequality and prejudice, of ill-will and strife. It advocates the promotion of harmonious relations between warring classes on the basis of equity and justice, and the creation of conditions under which human personality may flourish. It pleads for the safeguarding of childhood against exploitation. It champions the cause of all who work and of their right to an adequate standard of living, as prior to the rights of property. Judaism emphasizes the duty of charity, and strives for a social order which will protect men against the material disabilities of old age, sickness and unemployment.
8.
Peace. Judaism, from the days of the prophets, has proclaimed to mankind the ideal of universal peace. The spiritual and physical disarmament of all nations has been one of its essential teachings. It abhors all violence and relies upon moral education, love and sympathy to secure human progress. It regards justice as the foundation of the well-being of nations and the condition of enduring peace. It urges organized international action for disarmament, collective security and world peace.
C. Religious Practice
9.
The Religious Life. Jewish life is marked by consecration to these ideals of Judaism.
It calls for faithful participation in the life of the Jewish community as it finds expression in home, synagogue and school and in all other agencies that enrich
Jewish life and promote its welfare. The Home has been and must continue to be a stronghold of Jewish life, hallowed by the spirit of love and reverence, by moral discipline and religious observance and worship.
The Synagogue is the oldest and most democratic institution in Jewish life: It is the prime communal agency by which Judaism is fostered and preserved. It links the Jews of each community and unites them with all Israel. The perpetuation of Judaism as a living force depends upon religious knowledge and upon the Education of each new generation in our rich cultural and spiritual heritage.
Prayer is the voice of religion, the language of faith and aspiration. It directs man's heart and mind Godward, voices the needs and hopes of the community and reaches out after goals which invest life with supreme value. To deepen the spiritual life of i (
our people, we must cultivate the traditional habit of communion with God through prayer in both home and synagogue.
Judaism as a way of life requires in addition to its moral and spiritual demands, the preservation of the Sabbath, festivals and Holy Days, the retention and development of such customs, symbols and ceremonies as possess inspirational value, the cultivation of distinctive forms of religious art and music and the use of Hebrew, together with the vernacular, in our worship and instruction.
These timeless aims and ideals of our faith we present anew to a confused and troubled world. We call upon our fellow Jews to rededicate themselves to them, and, in harmony with all men, hopefully and courageously to continue Israel's eternal quest after God and His kingdom....
_THE COLUMBUS PLATFORM, 1937
2. What are the major changes from the 1885 Reform conference in Pittsburgh to this
Reform conference in 1937?

=== ZECHARIAS FRANKEL: FOUNDER OF CONSERVATIVE JUDAISM / ON CHANGES IN JUDAISM ===
ZECHARIAS FRANKEL: FOUNDER OF CONSERVATIVE JUDAISM
Rabbi Louis Jacobs, The Jewish Religion: A Companion. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1995..
Zechariah Frankel (1801-1873) was a rabbi, theologian, and historian of the Talmudic period. Frankel studied Talmud in his native Prague... and philosophy, natural science, and philology in
Budapest. His combination of traditional and general learning equipped Frankel to become one of the leading lights of the
Jüdische Wissenschaft movement in which the tools of modern historical criticism were used to explore the development of the classical sources of Judaism.
Frankel became principal of the Jewish Theological Seminary in
Breslau in 1854. In 1871 he published a learned journal... that became the foremost organ of modern Jewish scholarship. He also published...
many books and important essays...
demonstrating that Judaism had developed in response to the different conditions of Jewish life in various civilizations.
D$ 2. FRANKE
Harpper Brether de Wishu
The Breslau school, as Frankel and his associates came to be called, played an important role in its insistence that while freedom to investigate the origins of to Judaism; historical because it acknowledges that Judaism did not simply drop down from heaven ready-made, so to speak, but has had a history; positive, because, whatever the origins, this is what the religion has.come to be under the guidance of God.
The Breslau school did not rule out the possibility of further development and change in Judaism but held that the development must be in accordance with Judaism's own organic nature. Artificial changes, as introduced by the Reform [movement], were not in the true spirit of Judaism, especially when these involved the jettisoning of hallowed traditions. Prayers in languages other than Hebrew, for instance, while permitted according to the law, if introduced on a regular basis in the synagogue, as in Reform, involve a far too radical departure from the Judaism of the past.
, to the neo-
Revealing is the great debate between Frankel and Hirsch on the meaning of the rabbinic expression
"A law from Moses at Sinai," for example when it is said that it is 'a law from Moses at Sinal' that the take was opened plat rei because often ethn meaning or the as a train.
tefillin have to be black. Hirsch took this literally, that Moses was given at Sinai all the instructions about the tefillin. Frankel held that the term denotes a very ancient rule, the origins of which are lost in time. But true to his philosophy, Frankel wore tefillin and his tefillin were black because, for him, that is how Jews should follow the tradition of how God is to be worshipped.
Frankel is thus rightly seen as the real founder of what later came to be called Conservative Judaism.
Zecharias FRANKEL
On Changes in Judaism
... Maintaining the integrity of Judaism simultaneously with progress, this is the essential • problem of the present. Can we deny the difficulty of a satisfactory solution? Where is the point where the two apparent contraries can meet? What ought to be our point of departure in the attempt to reconcile essential Judaism and progress and what type of opposition may we expect to encounter! How can we assure rest for the soul so that it shall not be torn apart or be numbed by severe doubts while searching for the warm ray of faith, and yet allot to reason its right, and enable it to lend strength and lucidity to the religious feeling which springs from the emotions? The opposing elements which
• so seldom are in balance must be united and this is our task....
Judaism is a religion which has a direct influence on life's activity. It is a religion of action, demanding the performance of precepts which either directly aim at ennobling man or, by reminding man of the divine, strengthen his feelings of dependence on God.
And because of this trait neither pure abstract contemplation nor dark mysticism; could ever strike root in judaism. This, in turn, guaranteed that the lofty religious ideas were maintained in their purity, with the result that even today the divine light shines in
Judaism.
By emphasizing religious activity, Judaism is completely tied to life and becomes the property of every individual Jew. A religion of pure ideas belongs primarily to the theologians; the masses who are not adapted to súch conceptions concern themselves little with the particulars of such religions because they have little relationship to life.
• On the other hand, a religion of action is always present, demanding practice in activity and an expression of will, and its demands are reflected in the manifold life of the individual, with the result that the faith becomes the common property of every follower. Thus we have reached the starting point for the consideration of the current parties in Judaism. The viewpoint of the Orthodox party is clear. It has grown up in pious activity; to it the performance of precepts is inseparable from faith, for to it, the two are closely and inwardly connected. Were it to tear itself away from observance and give up the precepts, then it would find itself estranged from it own self and feel as though plunged into an abyss. Given this viewpoint, the direction and emphasis of the
Orthodox party is clear. Where else, save in the combination of faith and meticulous observance of the precepts, can it find that complete satisfaction which it has enjoyed in the heritage of the fathers? When it will reject that which it has so long kept holy and inviolable? No--that is unthinkable.
Against this party there has arisen of late another one [Reform] which finds its aim in the opposite direction. This party sees salvation in overcoming the past, in carrying progress to the limit, in rejecting religious forms and returning merely to the simple
original idea. In fact, we can hardly call it a party in judaism, though its adherents still
"bear the name Jew, and are considered as such in social and political life, and do not belong to another faith. They do not, however, belong wholly to Judaism, for by limiting
Judaism to some principles of faith, they place themselves partly outside the limits of
Judaism. We will now turn to a third party which has arisen from the first party, and not only stands within the bound of Judaism, but is also filled with real zeal for its preservation and endeavours to hand it over to the descendants and make it the common good of all times.
This party bases itself upon rational faith and recognizes that the task of Judaism is religious action, but it demands that this action shall not be empty of spirit and that it shall not become merely mechanical, expressing itself mainly in the form. It has also reached the view that religious activity itself must be brought up to a higher level through giving weight to the many meanings with which it should be endowed.
Furthermore, it holds that we must omit certain unimportant actions which are not inherently connected either with the high ideas or with the religious forms delineated by the revealed laws.
We must, it feels, take into consideration the opposition between faith and conditions of the time. True faith, due to its divine nature, is above time, and just as the nobler part, of man is not subjected to time, so does faith rise above all time, and the word which issued from the mouth of God is rooted in eternity; But time has a force and might which must be taken account of. There is then created a dualism in which faith and time face each other, and man chooses either to live beyond time or to be subjected to it. It is in this situation that the Jew finds himself today; he cannot escape the influence of the conditions of the time and yet when the demands of faith bring him to opposition with the spirit of the time, it is hoped that he will heed its call--find the power to resist the blandishments of the times. This third party, then, declares that
Judaism must be saved for all time. It affirms both the divine value and historical basis of
Judaism and, therefore believes that introducing some changes it may achieve some agreement with the concepts and conditions of the time.
In order to have a conception of what changes should and can be introduced, we must ask ourselves the question--does judaism allow any changes in any of its religious forms?
Does it consider all of them immutable, or can they be altered? Without entering into the citation of authorities pro and con, we may point out that Judaism does indeed allow changes. The early teachers, by interpretation, changed the literal meaning of the
Scriptures; later scholars that of the Mishnah and the post-Talmudic scholars that of the
Talmud. All these interpretations were, not intended as speculation. They addressed themselves to life precepts. Thanks to such studies, Judaism achieved stabilization and avoided estrangement from the conditions of the time in various periods.... [The rabbis] established a rule which was intended as a guardian and protector against undue changes. It reads as follows: That which was adopted by the entire community of Israel and was accepted by the people and became a part of its life, can not be changed by any authority.
In this fundamental statement there lies a living truth. Through it there speaks a profound view of Judaism which can serve for all times as a formula for needed changes and can be employed both against destructive reform and against stagnation.
This fundamental statement helps to make clear to us what changes in Judaism are justified and how they can be realized. True, Judaism demands religious activity, but the people is not altogether mere clay to be molded by the will of theologians and scholars.
In religious activities, as in those of ordinary life, it decides for itself. This right was conceded by Judaism to the people. At such times as an earlier religious ordinance was not accepted by the entire community of Israel, it was given up. Consequently, when a new ordinance was about to be enacted it was necessary to see whether it would find acceptance by the people. When the people allows certain practices to fall into disuse, then the practices cease to exist. There is in such cases no danger for faith. A people used to activity will not hurt itself and will not destroy its practices. Its own sense of religiosity warris against it. Only those practices from which it is entirely estranged and which yield it no satisfaction will be abandoned and will thus die of themselves. On the whole there is always a great fund of faith and religious activity to afford security against negation and destruction.
We have, then, reached a decisive point in regard to moderate changes, namely, that they. must come from the people and that the will of the entire community must decide.
Still, this rule alone may accomplish little. The whole community is a heavy unharmonious body and its will is difficult to recognize. It comes to expression only after many years. We must find a way to carry on such changes in the proper manner, and this can be done by the help of the scholars. Judaism has no priests as representatives of faith nor does it require special spiritual sanctimoniousness in its spokesmen. The power to represent it is not the share of any one family, nor does it pass from father to son. Knowledge and mastery of the law supply the sanctity, and these can be attained by everybody. In Jewish life, spiritual and intellectual ability ultimately took the place of the former priesthood which, even in early times, was limited in its function primarily to the sacrificial cult. Even in early days, Judaism recognized the will of the people as a great force and because of this recognition a great religious activity came into being. But this activity, in turn was translated into a living force by the teachers of the people through the use of original ordinances and through interpretation, of the Scriptures. At times these actions of the sages lightened the amount of observance; at times they increased it. That the results of the studies and research of the teachers found acceptance among the people proves, on the one hand, that the teachers knew the character of their time, and, on the other hand, that the people had confidence in them and that they considered them true representatives of their faith. Should Jewish theologians and scholars of our time succeed in acquiring such a confidence, then they. will attain influence with the introduction of Whatever changes may be necessary. The will of the community of Israel will then find its representatives and knowledge will be its proper exercise.
The scholars thus have an important duty in order to make their work effective. It is to guard the sense of piety of the people and to raise their spirit to the height of the great ideas. For this they need the confidence of the people. Opposition to the views of the people, such as some reformers display, is unholy and fruitless. The teacher thereby loses the power to make the essence of faith effective, for in place of that confidence which is the basis in correct relations between teacher and community there comes mistrust and an unwillingness to follow. The truths of faith must be brought nearer to the people so that they may learn to understand the divine content within them and thus come to understand the spiritual nature and inner worth of the forms which embody these truths. Once the people are saturated with an awareness of the essential truths and the forms which embody them, a firm ground will have been established for adhering to Jewish practices. And if the people then cease to practice some unimportant customs and forms of obseryances it will not be a matter of great concern.
And it will not, as recent changes haye, lead some Jews into shock and hopelessness.
They will no longer see all such changes as leading to the disappearance of our faith and language, as their pusillanimity leads them to believe, the end of the existence of Judaism.
no QUESTIONS ON ZECHARIAS FRANKEL: ON CHANGES IN JUDAISM
I. What kind of doubts did Frankel have about his colleagues' commitment to the place of Hebrew?
